# GGC. limited-Sales-Transaction-Reports

## Project Overview

The evaluation offers a comprehensive overview of sales performance of Customer name by orders, total Sales, Average sales, Highest Sales, Lowest Sales, Sales by Years, Sales by month and This segment underscores how current achievements align with established goals.

## Data Source

This dataset, acquired from a mentor, is organized into one sheet

## Tools

Microsoft Excel

Microsoft PowerBi

## Data Cleaning

a. Extract the month and year from each order date, placing them into columns C and D, respectively.

b.  Calculate the sales for each order date and enter the result into column E.

c.  Use the SUM function to calculate the total sales.

d.  Determine the average sales.

e.  What is the highest & lowest sale?

## Exploratory Data Analysis

i. Total Sales

ii. Average Sales per Order

iii. Highest Sale Amount

iv. Lowest Sale Amount.

v. Total Sales by Year : Created a line chart showing total sales for each year from 2019 to 2023
Include a slicer to allow users to filter the data by Customer Segment.

vi. Sales by Shipping Mode : Used a pie chart to show the total sales generated by each shipping mode 
(Regular Air, Express Air, Standard Class).

vii. Monthly Sales Trends: Created a line chart displaying sales trends over the months within each year, Enable filtering by Year to let users focus on trends within a specific year.

 viii. Sales by Product Category:  Display a pivot table showing sales broken down by product category,Add Customer Segment as a slicer to allow filtering by different types of customers.

## Result/ Findings

i. Total Sales = $40million 

ii. Average Sales per Order = $20K

iii. Highest Sale Amount = $147K

iv. Lowest Sale Amount = $1

v. Total Sales by Year = The higest Sales in the Years is 2020 with sum of $37,415,068 While the lowest of Years is 2019 with sum of $14,006

vi. Sales by Shipping Mode : Regualr air is the highest Shipping Mode by sales with the sum of $9.39m(35.95%) While Standard Class Came last with the sum of $8.09m(30.95%).

vii. Monthly Sales Trends: January is the highest Month by sales with sum of $4,397,681 while july came last with sum of $2,932,243.

viii. Sales by Product Category: There three types of Categories the highest category is Furnitures with sum of 
$13,516,751 and the lowest Category is $12,999,172.

